# clusterSubsetWithPCA

Cluster a subset of flow data using principal components.

## Usage

``` r
clusterSubsetWithPCA(
  input,
  pca_obj,
  num_components,
  num_clus,
  xdim = 10,
  ydim = 10,
  seed = NULL,
  convert_to_channels = TRUE,
  fsom_file = NULL
)
```

## Arguments

- input:

  A FlowSOM object or data frame.

- pca_obj:

  A [`prcomp`](https://rdrr.io/r/stats/prcomp.html) object as generated
  by [`doPCA()`](https://00berst33.github.io/flowFun/reference/doPCA.md)

- num_components:

  The number of principal components to use for reclustering, as
  determined by examining results of
  [`plotPCAScree()`](https://00berst33.github.io/flowFun/reference/plotPCAScree.md).

- num_clus:

  The number of metaclusters you would like.

- xdim:

  x-dimension of the SOM. Default is 10.

- ydim:

  y-dimension of the SOM. Default is 10.

- seed:

  A seed for reproducible results. Default is `NULL`.

- convert_to_channels:

  Logical, should the returned/saved FlowSOM object's data be defined in
  terms of channels. Default is `TRUE`.

- fsom_file:

  An .rds filename. If not `NULL` (default), the resulting FlowSOM
  object will be saved under this name.

## Value

A FlowSOM object or data table, depending on the data type of `input`.

## Details

When reclustering a subset of flow data, such as a cell population that
has been identified as monocytes, not every marker you used for the
initial clustering is still relevant. In such a case, you would no
longer be interested in using, for instance, a B cell marker. One
solution is to leave it up to the researcher to determine what markers
are appropriate for the reclustering, but this approach is very
user-dependent, therefore lacking reproducibility.

This function solves this problem by using PCA for reclustering. It
takes in an aggregated dataset, as generated by
[`createFilteredAggregate()`](https://00berst33.github.io/flowFun/reference/createFilteredAggregate.md),
and clusters the cells within it using the specified number of principal
components. If `convert_to_channels` is `TRUE` (default), it then takes
the cluster and metacluster assignments found from this clustering to
create a FlowSOM object defined in terms of channels, rather than
principal components, so that it may still be used with both the
functions in flowFun and in FlowSOM.
