# createFilteredAggregate

Filter preprocessed data to create a new aggregate file.

## Usage

``` r
createFilteredAggregate(
  input,
  num_cells,
  clusters = NULL,
  metaclusters = NULL,
  dir_save = NULL
)
```

## Arguments

- input:

  A FlowSOM object as generated by
  [`FlowSOM()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/FlowSOM/man/FlowSOM.html), or a data
  frame.

- num_cells:

  The total number of cells to include in the aggregate file.

- clusters:

  A numeric vector listing the clusters of interest.

- metaclusters:

  A character vector listing the metaclusters of interest.

- dir_save:

  If a directory path is given, then the filtered .fcs files used to
  create the aggregate file will be saved there. If `NULL` (default),
  then they will be discarded.

## Value

An aggregated
[`flowFrame`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/flowCore/man/flowFrame-class.html) or
data table, where only cells belonging to the given metaclusters and/or
clusters are included.

## Details

It is only necessary to define one of the arguments `clusters` and
`metaclusters`, but the user may use both if they wish.

This function takes in either a data frame or FlowSOM object, and
subsets each sample to contain only the cells included in the given
metaclusters and/or clusters. If desired, new .fcs files for each of
these subsetted samples are then written to a new directory, whose name
is specified by the user with the `dir_save` parameter. Note that it is
only helpful to save the files if you intend to perform additional
reclustering on them, otherwise they may be safely deleted.
